# Grover's Algorithm on VHDL

Simulating Quantum Circuits with full accuracy on a classical machine is impossible by Bell's theorem. Nonetheless, a classical system given enough resources can emulate a particular quantum circuit with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Though this may not be useful to emulate every quantum circuit possible, i.e. a quantum Turing machine, for any particular circuit which is to be used repeatedly, a classical emulation can be used to check the accuracy of the quantum computer over time. Thus, an ASIC-based system, such as an FPGA, which offers fast, large calculation, albeit with a loss of accuracy, can be implemented to simulate a quantum algorithm. This was done by the author, and Grover's search algorithm was implemented.

It is to be noted that the implementation could have been done much more easily, by hard-coding the frequency distributions. However, this was not done. Instead, the only hard-coded component was that corresponding to the Grover's algorithm. Everything else is more general to a quantum system, which implies that this code can be reused for other circuits as well.

In imlementing the alorithm, a basic fixed-point arithmetic was formulated. Only addition, subtraction and multiplication is included in this arithmetic, as usually one needs few other nmerical operations. Since all numbers involved in a quantum circuit must have a magnitude less than 1, a number is represented in 16-bits. This is done by taking the integral part of the number multiplied by 2^16. Thus, e.g., sqrt(2) = 92682 since sqrt(2) * 2^16 = 92681.90002. Addition and subtraction are done in this system as by directly adding the numbers. However, multiplication is done by multiplying the two numbers and taking the quotient when divided by 2^16. Thus, 92682^2 = 8589953124 / 2^16 = 131072 = 2.00000431481749, as expected.

Random numbers are generated by an LFSR of 32-bits with the polynomial x^32 + x^22 + x^2 + 1. This register is condensed into 16-bits to give a random sampling from 0 to 1 in the fixed-point system given above. A random number is chosen using a cumulative distribution function calculated from the final qubit found.
